added guide for contributing to the netplan documentation (#457)
canonical/netplan: doc/contribute-docs.md

## Contributing on GitHub

If you want to follow a Git development workflow, you can also check out the
[Netplan repository](https://github.com/canonical/netplan) and contribute your
changes as [pull requests](https://github.com/canonical/netplan/pulls), putting
the `documentation` label for better visibility.

## Folder Structure
All the documentation files are located in the `doc/` directory. The `doc/` directory contains sub-directories corresponding to different Diataxis sections. So you should find the following folders inside the `doc/` directory:
* `tutorial`
* `explanation`
* `howto`
* `reference`

If you're adding a new article, ensure you include it in the appropriate Diataxis directory. You can read about [how Ubuntu implements Diataxis for documentation](https://ubuntu.com/blog/diataxis-a-new-foundation-for-canonical-documentation).

## How to Build the Documentation
These steps will show you how to build the documentation on your local machine.
1. To build this documentation, first create a fork of the [Netplan repository](https://github.com/canonical/netplan) and clone that into your machine. For example:
    ```shell

>     git clone git@github.com:ade555/netplan.git

Reviewer: Thanks for your contribution. May I ask you to change this to a generic github link instead of your own? Some people tend to copy and paste things verbatim :)

Author: > Thanks for your contribution. May I ask you to change this to a generic github link instead of your own? Some people tend to copy and paste things verbatim :)

Definitely. I'll change it right now.

# How to contribute documentation
This guide provides all the information necessary to contribute to the Netplan documentation, especially if you're contributing for the first time.

## Reporting an issue

If you find any issue in Netplan documentation please [file a bug report](https://bugs.launchpad.net/netplan/+filebug?field.tags=documentation) about it in our bug tracker on Launchpad. Remember to add a `documentation`` tag
to it.

## Modifying documentation online

Each documentation page rendered on the web contains an **Edit this **page** link at the top-right of every page. Clicking this button will lead you to the GitHub
web editor where you can propose changes to the corresponding page.

Please remember to first check the [latest version](https://netplan.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
of our documentation and make your proposal based on that revision.

## Contributing on GitHub

If you want to follow a Git development workflow, you can also check out the
[Netplan repository](https://github.com/canonical/netplan) and contribute your
changes as [pull requests](https://github.com/canonical/netplan/pulls), putting
the `documentation` label for better visibility.

> ## Folder Structure

Author: Thanks for this! I didn't have the style guide before now. Fixed!

All the documentation files are located in the `doc/` directory. The `doc/` directory contains sub-directories corresponding to different Diátaxis sections. So you should find the following folders inside the `doc/` directory:
* `tutorial`
* `explanation`
* `howto`
* `reference`

If you're adding a new article, include it in the appropriate Diátaxis directory. You can read about [how Ubuntu implements Diátaxis for documentation](https://ubuntu.com/blog/diataxis-a-new-foundation-for-canonical-documentation).

> ## How to Build the Documentation

Author: Thank you for pointing this out. I didn't give it much thought before.

    ```
2. Navigate to the `doc/` directory and open it in your code editor.

3. Install `make` on your machine if you don't have it.
    ```shell
    sudo apt-get install make
    ```
    **NOTE**: The `make` command is compatible with Unix systems. If you're on Windows, you can [install Ubuntu with WSL to follow along](https://github.com/canonical/open-documentation-academy/blob/main/getting-started/start_with_WSL.md).

4. Within the `doc/` directory, run this command to build and serve the documentation:
    ```shell
    make run
    ```
    After you run the command, visit `http://127.0.0.1:8000` to view the documentation on your local machine.

    You can also find all the HTML files in the `.build/` directory.

    We use the `autobuild` module so that any edits you make (and save) as you work are applied and the documentation refreshes immediately.

## Documentation Format
The Netplan documentation is built with Sphinx using some Restructured Text formatting and Markdown. If you're new to Restructured Text, read our [style guide on how we use it at Ubuntu](https://canonical-documentation-with-sphinx-and-readthedocscom.readthedocs-hosted.com/style-guide/).

> We also use our Sphinx documentation starter pack for our documentation. You can [read about it](https://github.com/canonical/sphinx-docs-starter-pack) to properly understand how it works.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is needed. In fact, it seems like a potentially distracting piece of info.
```suggestion
```

## Testing the Documentation

> You should test the documentation before you make your pull request. These are some commands you should run `within` the `doc/` directory to test the documentation locally:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Test the documentation before submitting a pull request. Run the following commands from within the `doc/` directory to test the documentation locally:
```

> |command  |use|
> |---------|-----|
> |`make spelling`| Checks for spelling errors. This commands checks the HTML files in the `_build` directory. You should fix any errors in the corresponding Markdown file.|
> | `make linkcheck`| Checks for broken links|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|command  |use|
|---------|-----|
| `make spelling` | Check for spelling errors. This command checks the HTML files in the `_build` directory. Fix any errors in the corresponding Markdown file.|
| `make linkcheck`| Check for broken links|
| `make woke` | Check for non-inclusive language |
```

> **NOTE**: For the `make spelling` command to work, you must have `aspell` installed. You can install it with this command:
> ```shell
> sudo apt-get install aspell
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::{note}
For the `make spelling` command to work, you must have `aspell` installed. You can install it with `sudo apt-get install aspell`.
:::
```

# How to contribute documentation
This guide provides all the information necessary to contribute to the Netplan documentation, especially if you're contributing for the first time.

## Reporting an issue

> To report an issue in Netplan documentation, [file a bug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/netplan/+filebug?field.tags=documentation) about it in our bug tracker on Launchpad. Remember to add a `documentation`` tag.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To report an issue in Netplan documentation, [file a bug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/netplan/+filebug?field.tags=documentation) about it in our bug tracker on Launchpad. Remember to add a `documentation` tag.
```

to it.

## Modifying documentation online

Each documentation page rendered on the web contains an **Edit this page** link in the top-right corner. Clicking this button leads you to the GitHub
web editor where you can propose changes to the corresponding page.

> Please remember to first check the [latest version](https://netplan.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Remember to first check the [latest version](https://netplan.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
```

of our documentation and make your proposal based on that revision.

## Contributing on GitHub

To follow a Git development workflow, `checkout` the
[Netplan repository](https://github.com/canonical/netplan) and contribute your
changes as [pull requests](https://github.com/canonical/netplan/pulls), putting

> the `documentation` label for better visibility.

Reviewer 2: Can non-admins add labels to PRs?

Author: Hi, @rkratky. I don't think so. It was part of the document before I made changes. I'll remove it right away. Thank you for spotting it.

## Directory structure
All the documentation files are located in the `doc/` directory. The `doc/` directory contains sub-directories corresponding to different [Diátaxis](https://diataxis.fr/) sections:
* `tutorial`
* `explanation`
* `howto`
* `reference`

Add new articles in the appropriate directory. You can read about [how Ubuntu implements Diátaxis for documentation](https://ubuntu.com/blog/diataxis-a-new-foundation-for-canonical-documentation).

## Building the documentation
Follow these steps to build the documentation on your local machine.
1. Fork the [Netplan repository](https://github.com/canonical/netplan). Visit [Fork a repository](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/fork-a-repo) for instructions.

2. Clone the repository to your machine:

>     ```shell

Reviewer 2: Remove syntax highlighting.

    git clone git@github.com:your_user_name/netplan.git
    ```
3. Navigate to the `doc/` directory within the cloned repository:
    ```
    cd netplan/doc
    ```

4. Install `make` on your machine if you don't have it:
    ```shell
    sudo apt-get install make
    ```
    :::{note}
    The `make` command is compatible with Unix systems. If you're on Windows, you can [install Ubuntu with WSL to follow along](https://github.com/canonical/open-documentation-academy/blob/main/getting-started/start_with_WSL.md).
    :::

5. Within the `doc/` directory, run the `make` command to build and serve the documentation:
    ```shell
    make run
    ```
    After you run the command, visit `http://127.0.0.1:8000` in your browser to view the local copy of the documentation.

    You can find all the HTML files in the `.build/` directory.

    We use the Sphinx `autobuild` module, so that any edits you make (and save) as you work are applied, and the documentation refreshes immediately.

## Documentation format

> The Netplan documentation is built with Sphinx using the reStructuredText and Markdown mark-up languages. If you're new to reStructuredText, read our [reStructuredText style guide](https://canonical-documentation-with-sphinx-and-readthedocscom.readthedocs-hosted.com/style-guide/).

Reviewer 3: question (non-blocking): Are we actually using reStructuredText somewhere?

Author: Hi, @slyon. Robert added that bit. I didn't use reStructuredText in this document, but I noticed it's used in some other documents.
